

Many Instances of SQL injections are blind vulnerabilities. This means the application does not return the results of the SQL query or the details of any database errors within its responses. 


The following techniques can be used to exploit blind SQL injection vulns:

- You can change the logic of the query to trigger a detectable difference in the application's response depending on the truth of a single condition. This might involve injecting a new condition into some Boolean logic, or conditionally triggering an error

- Your can conditionally trigger a time delay in the processing of the query. This enables you to infer the truth of the condition based on the time that the application takes to respond

- You can trigger an Out-Of-band network detection, using OAST techniques. This technique is extremely powerful and works in situations where other techniques do not. Often, it is possible to directly exfiltrate data via the out-of-band channel. For example, You can place the data into a DNS lookup for a domain that you control






### Exploiting blind SQL injection by triggering conditional responses


Consider an application that uses tracking cookies to gather analytics about usage. 

```
cookie=suSUHSIyshuskJSL
```

When a request containing a TrackingId cookie is processed, the application uses SQL query to determine whether this is a known user


```
SELECT TrackingId FROM TrackedUsers WHERE TrackingId = 'suSUHSIyshuskJSL'
```


This query is vulnerable to SQL injection, but the results from the query are not returned to the user. However, the application does behave differently depending on whether the query returns any data. 

If you submit a recognized TrackingID, the query returns data and you receive a welcomeback message. 

This behaviour can be used to exploit Blind SQLi to extract data




For example, Let's suppose there's a users table with columns username and password, and a user called administrator. We can determine the password for this user by sending a series of inputs to test the password one character at a time


```
JSL' AND SUBSTRING((SELECT Password FROM users where Username = 'Administrator'), 1, 1) > 'm
```


If the first character is m, it will return "welcome back". In this manner, we can extract out the entire password 