
There are 5 types of file system in windows : 
- FAT12
- FAT16
- FAT32
- NTFS
- exFAT.FAT12
- exFAT.FAT16


#### FAT32

- FAT32 (File Allocation Table) is widely used across many types of storage devices such as USB memory sticks and SD cards but can also be used to format hard drives.
- The "32" in the name refers to the fact that FAT32 uses 32 bits of data for identifying data clusters on a storage device.



	 #### Pros of FAT32
	 - Device compatibility - it can be used on computers, digital cameras, gaming consoles etc
	 - OS cross-operability - It works on all windows OS starting from windows 95 and is also supported by Mac and Linux


     #### Cons of FAT32
     - Can be used with files that are less that 4 GB
     - No built-in data protection or file compression features
     - Must use third-party tools for file encryption





#### NTFS 

- NTFS (New Technology File System) is the default windows file system.
- Has better support for metadata and better performance due to improved data structuring



	 #### Pros of NTFS
	 - NTFS is reliable, can restore the consistency of the file system in the event of a system failure or power loss
	 - provides security by allowing us to set granular permissions on both files and folders
	 - supports very large-sized partitions
	 - has journaling built-in, meaning that file modifications ( addition, modification, deletion) are logged



	 #### Cons of NTFS
	 - Most Mobile devices don't support NTFS natively
	 - Older media devices such as TVs and digital cameras do not offer support for NTFS storage devices. 






## Permissions

The NTFS file system has many basic and advanced permissions. Some of the key permissions are:


| Permission<br>Type      | Description                                                                                                               |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Full Control            | Allows reading, writing, changing, deleting of files/folders.                                                             |
| Modify                  | Allows reading, writing, and deleting of files and folders                                                                |
| List Folder<br>Contents | Allows for viewing and listing folders and subfolders as well as executing files. Folders are inherit this permission     |
| Read and Execute        | Allows for viewing and listing files and subfolders as well as executing files. Files and folders inherit this permission |
| Write                   | Allows for adding files to folders and subfolders and writing to a file                                                   |
| Read                    | Allows for viewing and listing of folders and subfolders and viewing a file's content                                     |
| Traverse Folders        | This allows or denies the ability to move through folder to reach other folders                                           |


Files and Folders inherit the NTFS permissions of their parent folder for ease of administration, so administrators do not need to explicitly set permissions for each folder and file. 






## Integrity Control Access Control List (icacls)

ICACL is a command-line utility in windows used to view and modify files and folder permissions(ACLS — Access Control Lists)


#### ICACLS can :

- view permissions on files and directories
- change permissions, including granting or revoking access for users and groups.
- backup and restore  ACLs
- Set Ownership of files/folders
- Apply inheritance and set integrity levels




#### Basic Access Permissions :

##### 1. F : Full Access
##### 2. D : Delete Access
##### 3. N : No access
##### 4. M : Modify access
##### 5. RX : read and execute access
##### 6. R : Read-only access
##### 7. W : Write-Only accesss





#### Resource Access Levels

##### 1. (CI) : Container Inherit

- Applies to : Folders
- Func : Applies the permissions to subfolders of the current folder. 
- If you set a permission with CI, every **subfolder created later** will **inherit** this permission.

**example**:

```powershell
icacls "C:\Test" /grant User:(CI)R #User gets read permission on all sub-folders of test
```




##### 2. (OI) : Object Inherit

- Applies to : Files
- Func : Applies the permissions to files inside the current folder
- If you set a permission with OI, all files in the folder will inherit this permission

**Example**:

```powershell
icacls "C:\Test" /grant User:(OI)R #User can read all files, but has no access to subfolders
```




##### 3. (IO) : Inherit Only

- Applies to : —
- Func : Prevents the permission from being applied to this folder or file. It means, apply the permissions to children, not to this object.
- If you set a permission with IO, only the children of that folder will be affected by the permissions. 

**Examples**:

```powershell
icacls "C:\Test" /grant User:(OI)(CI)(IO)R #User gets read access only to child files and folders, not to C:\Test itself.
```





##### 4. (NP) : No Propagate Inherit

- Applies to : —
- Func : restricts inheritance to only level only
-  Children inherit the ACE, but **grandchildren and deeper do not**.

**Example**:

```powershell
icacls "C:\Test" /grant User:(OI)(CI)(NP)R #User gets read access on immediate children, but not on nested folders.
```





##### 5. (I) : Inherited

- Func : It shows up in icacls output to indicate that the permission was **inherited from a parent folder**, not explicitly set on the object.





##### 6. Revoke

The permissions can be revoked by the command: 

```powershell
icacls "C:\Test" /remove User
```

