

#### Port Forwarding

 - Port forwarding is a networking technique that allows us to redirect a communication request from one port to another. 
 - Port Forwarding uses TCP as the primary protocol. However, different protocols such as SSH or SOCKS can be used to encapsulate the forwarded traffic. 





#### SSH Local Port Forwarding


- SSH Local port forwarding is a technique that allows us to make a remote service running on a remote host accessible to our local machine via SSH. 
- It maps the remote service port to a local port on our machine and tunnels all traffic sent to the local port to the remote port through the SSH session. 
- It is done to expose a **Remote Service** to the Local Machine




#### Syntax

```bash
ssh -L 1234:127.0.0.1:3306 username@hostname
```


The -L command tells the SSH client to request the SSH server  to forward all data that we send via the port `1234` to `localhost:3306` on the remote server. 

Now, any traffic that we issue to our local port will be tunneled through the SSH connection to the remote port.




#### Dynamic Port Forwarding

- Dynamic Port Forwarding is a network technique that allows us to turn a remote host into a SOCKS proxy that will route traffic from it to the internal network.  
- This is essential for pivoting as our local system does not have the required routes to reach the isolated target network segment (Only the remote host can access it)
- Once we setup Dynamic Port Forwarding,  tools and browsers on our local machine can send traffic through the **SOCKS proxy**, and reach **any internal systems the remote host can access**.
- We **don’t need to define specific destination IPs or ports** — unlike local or remote forwarding — because the routing happens dynamically.


#### Dynamic Port Forwarding Via ssh

- We can do this by starting a SOCKS listener on our localhost and then configure SSH to forward all traffic sent to this SOCKS listener to the target network components after connecting to the remote host.



#### Example Scenario : 

Suppose we have compromised a Linux server that resides on a LAN and has **two network interfaces**:

- eth0 with IP 192.168.56.12 (connected to a routable network we can access)
    
- eth1 with IP 10.10.11.34 (connected to an **internal** network we cannot directly access)
    

  
Our goal is to **pivot into the eth1 network** and scan or interact with systems in that segment. However, our attacking machine does **not have a direct route** to 10.10.11.0/24. Only the compromised server can reach it via eth1.

  
To achieve this, we use **SSH Dynamic Port Forwarding** to turn the compromised server into a **SOCKS proxy**.


We start a SOCKS listener on our machine. Now, any traffic sent to SOCKS listener will be tunneled through SSH to the remote server, which will then **dynamically route it** to its reachable destinations — including hosts in the 10.10.11.0/24 network via eth1.


This technique is called SSH tunneling over SOCKS proxy. 



#### Syntax

```bash
ssh -D SOCKS_LISTENER_PORT username@hostname
```